# SQLAlchemy

**FastAPI Users** provides the necessary tools to work with SQL databases thanks to [SQLAlchemy ORM with asyncio](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/orm/extensions/asyncio.html).

## Asynchronous driver

To work with your DBMS, you'll need to install the corresponding asyncio driver. The common choices are:

* For PostgreSQL: `pip install asyncpg`
* For SQLite: `pip install aiosqlite`

For the sake of this tutorial from now on, we'll use a simple SQLite databse.

## Create the User model

As for any SQLAlchemy ORM model, we'll create a `User` model.

```py hl_lines="13-14"
--8<-- "docs/src/db_sqlalchemy.py"
```

As you can see, **FastAPI Users** provides a base class that will include base fields for our `User` table. You can of course add you own fields there to fit to your needs!

!!! tip "Primary key is defined as UUID"
    By default, we use UUID as a primary key ID for your user. If you want to use another type, like an auto-incremented integer, you can use `SQLAlchemyBaseUserTable` as base class and define your own `id` column.

    ```py
    class User(SQLAlchemyBaseUserTable[int], Base):
        id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True)
    ```

    Notice that `SQLAlchemyBaseUserTable` expects a generic type to define the actual type of ID you use.

## Implement a function to create the tables

We'll now create an utility function to create all the defined tables.

```py hl_lines="21-23"
--8<-- "docs/src/db_sqlalchemy.py"
```

This function can be called, for example, during the initialization of your FastAPI app.

!!! warning
    In production, it's strongly recommended to setup a migration system to update your SQL schemas. See [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/).

## Create the database adapter dependency

The database adapter of **FastAPI Users** makes the link between your database configuration and the users logic. It should be generated by a FastAPI dependency.

```py hl_lines="26-33"
--8<-- "docs/src/db_sqlalchemy.py"
```

Notice that we define first a `get_async_session` dependency returning us a fresh SQLAlchemy session to interact with the database.

It's then used inside the `get_user_db` dependency to generate our adapter. Notice that we pass it two things:

* The `session` instance we just injected.
* The `User` class, which is the actual SQLAlchemy model.
